Albert Einstein was a German born theoretical physicist who developed the theory of relativity, one of the two pillars of modern physics alongside quantum mechanics. His work is also known for its influence on the philosophy of science. He is best known by the general public for his mass energy equivalence formula E equals mc squared which has been dubbed the worlds most famous equation. He received the Nobel Prize in Physics for his services to theoretical physics, and especially for his discovery of the law of the photoelectric effect, a pivotal step in the evolution of quantum theory. Near the beginning of his career, Einstein thought that Newtonian mechanics was no longer enough to reconcile the laws of classical mechanics with the laws of the electromagnetic field. This led him to develop his special theory of relativity during his time at the Swiss Patent Office in Bern, Switzerland. However, he realized that the principle of relativity could also be extended to gravitational fields and with his subsequent theory of gravitation he published a paper on general relativity. He continued to deal with problems of statistical mechanics and quantum theory, which led to his explanations of particle theory and the motion of molecules. He also investigated the thermal properties of light which laid the foundation of the photon theory of light. He applied the general theory of relativity to model the large scale structure of the universe. He lived in Switzerland, where he received his academic diploma from the Swiss Federal Polytechnic in ZYrich. He later taught at that institute as a professor of theoretical physics before he left for Berlin. After being stateless for more than five years, he acquired Swiss citizenship, which he kept for the rest of his life. He was awarded a PhD by the University of Zurich. The same year, his annus mirabilis, he published four groundbreaking papers, which were to bring him to the notice of the academic world, at the age of twenty six. He was visiting the United States when Adolf Hitler came to power and being Jewish did not go back to Germany, where he had been a professor at the Berlin Academy of Sciences. He settled in the United States, becoming an American citizen. On the eve of World War two, he endorsed a letter to President Franklin D. Roosevelt alerting him to the potential development of extremely powerful bombs of a new type and recommending that the U.S. begin similar research. This eventually led to what would become the Manhattan Project. Einstein supported defending the Allied forces, but generally denounced the idea of using the newly discovered nuclear fission as a weapon. Later, with the British philosopher Bertrand Russell, he signed the Russell Einstein Manifesto, which highlighted the danger of nuclear weapons. He was affiliated with the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey, until his death.