Claude Elwood Shannon was an American mathematician, electrical engineer, and cryptographer known as the father of information theory. Shannon is noted for having founded information theory with a landmark paper, A Mathematical Theory of Communication. He is, perhaps, equally well known for founding digital circuit design theory as a master degree student at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He wrote his thesis demonstrating that electrical applications of Boolean algebra could construct any logical, numerical relationship. Shannon contributed to the field of cryptanalysis for national defense during the second World War, including his fundamental work on codebreaking and secure telecommunications. Biography. Childhood. Shannon was born in Petoskey, Michigan and grew up in Gaylord, Michigan. His father, Claude, Sr. a descendant of early settlers of New Jersey, was a self made businessman, and for a while, a Judge of Probate. Shannons mother, Mabel Wolf Shannon, was a language teacher, and also served as the principal of Gaylord High School. Most of the first years of Shannons life were spent in Gaylord, where he attended public school, graduating from Gaylord High School. Shannon showed an inclination towards mechanical and electrical things. His best subjects were science and mathematics. At home he constructed such devices as models of planes, a radio controlled model boat and a barbed wire telegraph system to a friends house a half mile away. While growing up, he also worked as a messenger for the Western Union company. His childhood hero was Thomas Edison, who he later learned was a distant cousin. Both Shannon and Edison were descendants of John Ogden, a colonial leader and an ancestor of many distinguished people. Shannon was apolitical and an atheist. Logic circuits. Shannon entered the University of Michigan, where he was introduced to the work of George Boole. He graduated with two bachelors degrees: one in electrical engineering and the other in mathematics. Shannon began his graduate studies in electrical engineering at MIT, where he worked on Vannevar Bush differential analyzer, an early analog computer. While studying the complicated ad hoc circuits of this analyzer, Shannon designed switching circuits based on Boole concepts. He wrote his masters degree thesis, A Symbolic Analysis of Relay and Switching Circuits. A paper from this thesis was published. In this work, Shannon proved that his switching circuits could be used to simplify the arrangement of the electromechanical relays that were used then in telephone call routing switches. Next, he expanded this concept, proving that these circuits could solve all problems that Boolean algebra could solve. In the last chapter, he presents diagrams of several circuits, including a four bit full adder.